Deploy intro (#51)
tikv/website: content/docs/3.0/tasks/deploy/introduction.md

        weight: 1
---

Typical deployments of TiKV include a number of components:

* 3+ TiKV nodes
* 3+ Placement Driver (PD) nodes
* 1 Monitoring node
* 1 or more client application or query layer (like [TiDB](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb))

{{< info >}}
TiKV is deployed alongside a [Placement Driver](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/) (PD) cluster. PD is the cluster manager of TiKV, which periodically checks replication constraints to balance load and data automatically.
{{< /info >}}

For your **first steps** into TiKV requires only a few things:

* A modest machine that fulfills the [system requirements](#system-requirements).
* A running [Docker](https://docker.com) service.

> If you have those, follow through the [`docker-compose`](../docker-compose) guide to get a test setup of TiKV running on your machine.

Author: `docker-compose` doesn't require a server though, just a machine.

> If you have those, follow through the [`docker-compose`](../docker-compose) guide to get a test setup of TiKV running on your machine.

Reviewer: Good to know, what about "the environment" instead. In user docs I am inclined to use more specific references than pronouns such as these and those.

**Production** usage is typically done via automation requiring:

* A control machine (it can be one of your target servers) with [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) installed.
* Several (6+) machines fulfilling the [system requirements](#system-requirements) and at least up to [production specifications](#production-specifications).
* The ability to configure your infrastructure to allow the ports from [network requirements](#network-requirements).

> If you have these, follow through the [Ansible deployment](../ansible) guide. You may optionally choose unsupported manual [Docker deployment](../docker) or [binary deployment](../binary) strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have your production environment ready, follow through the [Ansible deployment](../ansible) guide. You may optionally choose unsupported manual [Docker deployment](../docker) or [binary deployment](../binary) strategies.
```

> If you have these, follow through the [Ansible deployment](../ansible) guide. You may optionally choose unsupported manual [Docker deployment](../docker) or [binary deployment](../binary) strategies.

Author: As far as I am aware we only officially support Ansible and Kubernetes right now. Maybe @c4pt0r can enlighten us?

> If you have these, follow through the [Ansible deployment](../ansible) guide. You may optionally choose unsupported manual [Docker deployment](../docker) or [binary deployment](../binary) strategies.

Reviewer: PTAL @c4pt0r If we don't support Docker deployment or binary then we shouldn't redirect users to it.

> If you have these, follow through the [Ansible deployment](../ansible) guide. You may optionally choose unsupported manual [Docker deployment](../docker) or [binary deployment](../binary) strategies.

Author: @dcalvin It's OK to have guides that are not (currently) supported. We will eventually need to have guides (or else folks will just wing it and make terrible mistakes), so starting from something is better than starting from scratch.

> Finally, if you want to **develop** TiKV you should consult the [README](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/README.md) of the repository.

Reviewer: I am not sure whether we should include this line - there seems to be no direct relation between TiKV development and TiKV deployment.

Author: Let's change it to say "If you want to build your own version of TiKV" as folks may want builds using different feature flags which we don't distribute.
